README.md, before:

<div style="display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: left; gap: 1rem;">
  <img src="./assets/hmcts-logo.png" alt="HM Courts & Tribunals Service logo" width="120" />
  <h1 style="margin: 0;">🔐 Secrets Scanner GitHub Action</h1>
</div>

This GitHub Action runs both [Gitleaks](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks) and [TruffleHog](https://github.com/trufflesecurity/trufflehog) to scan for secrets in your codebase.

> ⚠️ **Note:** This custom Action is not strictly necessary. Both tools can be easily configured on a per-repository basis using GitHub workflows.  
> However, in large programmes or departments, this Action:
>
> - Eases configuration
> - Encourages best practice
> - Reduces setup and maintenance overhead
> - Enables consistent improvements across teams without the need for coordination

## 🚀 Usage

```yaml
- uses: hmcts/secrets-scanner@main
```
Or the following example will pin to a specific major version:
```yaml
- uses: hmcts/secrets-scanner@v1
```

## ✅ Tools Included

- **Gitleaks**: Fast, lightweight secret scanner for git repos
- **TruffleHog**: Finds secrets via regex and entropy analysis

## 📂 Example Workflow

```yaml
name: Scan for Secrets

on:
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - master
      - main
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 4 * * 4' # Every Thursday at 04:00
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  scan:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          fetch-depth: 0

      - uses: hmcts/secrets-scanner@main
        with:
           github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
           gitleaks_license: ${{ secrets.GITLEAKS_LICENSE }}
           gitleaks_regex_internal_url: ${{ secrets.GITLEAKS_REGEX_INTERNAL_URL }}
```

## 🔄 Keeping Up to Date

This Action centralises improvements so teams benefit automatically from:

- Updates to scanning rules
- New secret patterns
- Better failure messages
- Toolchain upgrades

## Tagging on Release

When creating a new version of this action, it's important to maintain a floating `vX`, e.g. `v1`, tag in addition to the full semantic version tag (e.g., `v1.0.1`).

### Why We Do This

Consumers of this GitHub Action often want to use a floating version, i.e. `@v1`, rather than pinning to a specific version, i.e. `@v1.0.1`.  
This allows them to automatically benefit from bug fixes and minor enhancements without manually upgrading their workflows.

By maintaining the floating tag, we:
- Reduce friction for consumers
- Avoid enforcing unnecessary upgrades
- Support safe iteration and patching within a major version

This helps reduce long-term run and maintain costs across consuming projects.

### How to Tag

1. Tag and push the new version via the command line or GitHub UI:

   ```bash
   git tag v1.0.1 HEAD
   git push origin v1.0.1
   ```

2. Update the `v1` tag to point to the new release:

   ```bash
   git tag -f v1 v1.0.1
   git push origin v1 --force
   ```

### Verify

You can verify that `v1` now points to the latest version by visiting:

[https://github.com/hmcts/secrets-scanner/tags](https://github.com/hmcts/secrets-scanner/tags)

Make sure both the full version tag (e.g., `v1.0.1`) and the floating `v1` tag appear, and that `v1` points to the latest commit.

## Local Testing

Install TruffleHog and Gitleaks locally to test the action:

```bash
brew install gitleaks trufflehog
```

Then run the following commands in your repository:
```bash
gitleaks detect --source . --report-path report-gitleaks.json --redact
trufflehog filesystem . --results=verified,unknown --json > report-trufflehog.json
```

Test against the `test_scans` directory to see example output:
```bash
gitleaks detect --source test_scans/ --report-path report-gitleaks.json --redact
trufflehog filesystem test_scans/ --results=verified,unknown --json > report-trufflehog.json
```

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Add cleaning commits section to README
Added instructions for cleaning commits using BFG Repo Cleaner.

README.md, after:

<div style="display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: left; gap: 1rem;">
  <img src="./assets/hmcts-logo.png" alt="HM Courts & Tribunals Service logo" width="120" />
  <h1 style="margin: 0;">🔐 Secrets Scanner GitHub Action</h1>
</div>

This GitHub Action runs both [Gitleaks](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks) and [TruffleHog](https://github.com/trufflesecurity/trufflehog) to scan for secrets in your codebase.

> ⚠️ **Note:** This custom Action is not strictly necessary. Both tools can be easily configured on a per-repository basis using GitHub workflows.  
> However, in large programmes or departments, this Action:
>
> - Eases configuration
> - Encourages best practice
> - Reduces setup and maintenance overhead
> - Enables consistent improvements across teams without the need for coordination

## 🚀 Usage

```yaml
- uses: hmcts/secrets-scanner@main
```
Or the following example will pin to a specific major version:
```yaml
- uses: hmcts/secrets-scanner@v1
```

## ✅ Tools Included

- **Gitleaks**: Fast, lightweight secret scanner for git repos
- **TruffleHog**: Finds secrets via regex and entropy analysis

## 📂 Example Workflow

```yaml
name: Scan for Secrets

on:
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - master
      - main
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 4 * * 4' # Every Thursday at 04:00
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  scan:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          fetch-depth: 0

      - uses: hmcts/secrets-scanner@main
        with:
           github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
           gitleaks_license: ${{ secrets.GITLEAKS_LICENSE }}
           gitleaks_regex_internal_url: ${{ secrets.GITLEAKS_REGEX_INTERNAL_URL }}
```

## 🔄 Keeping Up to Date

This Action centralises improvements so teams benefit automatically from:

- Updates to scanning rules
- New secret patterns
- Better failure messages
- Toolchain upgrades

## Tagging on Release

When creating a new version of this action, it's important to maintain a floating `vX`, e.g. `v1`, tag in addition to the full semantic version tag (e.g., `v1.0.1`).

### Why We Do This

Consumers of this GitHub Action often want to use a floating version, i.e. `@v1`, rather than pinning to a specific version, i.e. `@v1.0.1`.  
This allows them to automatically benefit from bug fixes and minor enhancements without manually upgrading their workflows.

By maintaining the floating tag, we:
- Reduce friction for consumers
- Avoid enforcing unnecessary upgrades
- Support safe iteration and patching within a major version

This helps reduce long-term run and maintain costs across consuming projects.

### How to Tag

1. Tag and push the new version via the command line or GitHub UI:

   ```bash
   git tag v1.0.1 HEAD
   git push origin v1.0.1
   ```

2. Update the `v1` tag to point to the new release:

   ```bash
   git tag -f v1 v1.0.1
   git push origin v1 --force
   ```

### Verify

You can verify that `v1` now points to the latest version by visiting:

[https://github.com/hmcts/secrets-scanner/tags](https://github.com/hmcts/secrets-scanner/tags)

Make sure both the full version tag (e.g., `v1.0.1`) and the floating `v1` tag appear, and that `v1` points to the latest commit.

## Local Testing

Install TruffleHog and Gitleaks locally to test the action:

```bash
brew install gitleaks trufflehog
```

Then run the following commands in your repository:
```bash
gitleaks detect --source . --report-path report-gitleaks.json --redact
trufflehog filesystem . --results=verified,unknown --json > report-trufflehog.json
```

Test against the `test_scans` directory to see example output:
```bash
gitleaks detect --source test_scans/ --report-path report-gitleaks.json --redact
trufflehog filesystem test_scans/ --results=verified,unknown --json > report-trufflehog.json
```

## Cleaning commits

Apply the fixes highlighted in the scan.

If the scan is still picking up the issues in the history, then use [BFG Repo Cleaner](https://rtyley.github.io/bfg-repo-cleaner/)

If using macOS and brew:
```
brew install bfg
```

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
